So welcome to Preparing for Particles! In this video we're
just going to be getting ourselves all setup, ready to use particle systems. So I'll see you in there!
So let's start focusing on projectiles! We're going to be laying the groundwork here, as I
said. So one thing, we don't need an auto-mortar in the scene. The other thing is
I'd like to be able to fire nice and rapidly, so I can see my projectiles and I can
see the smoke they're going to be leaving behind, I don't want to wait 3 seconds. So let's to go the
tank blueprint, AimingComponent, turn the Reload Time
down to maybe 0.1 of a second, and compile that. So now I can fire
rapidly but I also want to be able to fire more than three rounds, and it slightly disappoints me that
I can't set the number of rounds here in blueprint, so let's go fix that quickly!
In the TankAimingComponent header file, we have int RoundsLeft =
3. Well firstly, it shouldn't be int, it should be int32 or
uint32. So int32 and uint32 are both
platform independent implementations of the int, which Unreal is
using, and it makes sure that when we deploy to different platforms we actually
get what we're expecting to get, rather than getting a 64 bit or a 16 bit integer.
So we're going to us int32. Why not uint32, which is
the unsigned integer? Because it's not compatible with what I'm about to do, which is the
UPROPERTY, and we want it (Visible
Anywhere), which is a bit strange I know but it will actually let us... Sorry
we don't want it VisibleAnywhere, we want it exactly the same
annotation as this, as the ReloadTime and the other bit. So we want Edit
DefaultsOnly. In fact, I'm going to move this guy right up here,
like this, alongside the other properties. And I'm even going to put the
ProjectileBluepri?nt up a bit and that way all of our firing
metrix, that we're able to set in the bluepri?nt, are sitting next to each other.
But I'm going to use int32 for that, so let me go and do a search in my project. Control H
will do a search and replace for int, and that wants to become int32,
matching whole words. And you'll find that I've used it
here in GetRoundsLeft, const in the public part of
the declaration of the getter, so we replace that one.
And where else have I done it? Well I don't want to just
search the current document, I want to search the entire project, and of
course, it's in the definition of the function there.
And that is it, no more ints in our entire project! You see the approach there, rather than just
fixing the one problem we had, I thought let's fix all instances of using int.
Luckily we only used it in one place, so it was a bit of a mistake in the first section. Of course, I drilled it
into you to use int32 and then forgot myself, I'm only human. So
now this is going to be editable in blueprint. Let's go ahead and compile!
And what I'm expecting to see is, well that it'll rip focus away from me
callously, probably, but if it does compile, when I go back into the TankAimingComponent
I should see in the firing section, on the right over here, the ability to set the
number of rounds up to a lot more. Maybe I'll set 20 or something, so that we can fire off rounds till
our heart's content. There you go! And then, the compilation of the blueprint's real
quick, and then, now I can fire, boom boom boom boom boom! And that's absolutely
fine! Cool! So now, let's think about how we're going to compose the projectile blueprint.
Firstly, I'm going to move it into a Projectile folder, because it's no longer directly
about the tank. Now it's complaining, graph is linked to
some hot reloaded TankAimingComponent. What's the problem?
Sometimes this is because you've got more than one copy of Unreal open. I don't appear to
have, so I'm going to close Unreal, saving everything I can, and just
reopen it, because I do want to move that projectile out and into its
own folder, so that we can start building up all the particle effects and everything in its own folder.
So I think it moved, I think it is there in the Projectile folder, let's just
have a quick look through the folders while we're here. BattleGround has stuff only relating to the BattleGround.
Blueprints. I think I'll move the Mortar into the Mortar folder, otherwise these
Blueprints contain pure blueprints. The Mortar
has all mortar stuff and mortar materials. The Projectile has that, the Tank
still has the TankPlayerController. I think I'll move that back to Blueprints, because that looks
like these others, they're all just kine of pure blueprints. Tank just has Tank and Tank assets
and UI's, all good. OK, so on this projectile blueprint, if we take a look
at it, we can see at the moment that we have a DefaultSceneRoot and then a Sphere that we added
to it. I'm actually going to get rid of the Sphere in the
projectile blueprint altogether, and we're going to build up this projectile blueprint purely from C++.
In fact, I want you to do that. So what we're going to
do is, we've done thi?s before. In fact, if you go into your Projectile.cpp,
you'll find that we already did this, we
created default sub-objects. So what I want you to do is the same thing, setup the projectile
components from C++. Create default sub-objects even for
a UStaticMeshComponent and call it CollisionMesh and a UParticleSystem
Component and call it LaunchBlast. Make them UPROPERTY (Visible
Anywhere), also put a category, and check they appear on the blueprint and all that they're
properties appear on the blueprint as well. So go ahead, pause the video, and do that now.
OK welcome back! So let's make this happen, let's start off...
I'm going to start off on the header file, I think. These are going to be private, so we're going to
want a couple of things. What did I say they were? A USTATICMESHCOMPONENT.
Pointer
called CollisionMesh. Now we're going to use that to
detect when the projectile hits things.
OK, if I can type straight, null pointer. OK, and then the other thing we're going to want is
a UParticleSystemComponent which
we'll explore in some detail, in the upcoming videos, and we're going to call it LaunchBlast
and make it the null pointer.
Great! OK, so now that we have these things, let's go
and attach them as default sub-objects, starting off with the CollisionMesh. I'll start at the top with
that. So we're going to say the CollisionMesh =
CreateDefault... In fact, I'm just going to
copy CreateDefaultSubobject, and it's going to be
a UStaticMeshComponent.
And did you remember that you need to give it an (FName)?
And why call it anything more complicated than "(CollisionMesh")?
OK great! So that is adding a CollisionMesh programmatically. Shall we just
text that real quick! No harm, as we'll test the first one. What I'm hoping will happen
is a CollisionMesh will pop in here. Then, we want to do a couple of things with that
to make sure that we know that it's the root component, etc. But let's just check that it
comes in at all and then, I'll work through the rest of the C++ with you.
Some of these bits I can't have expected you to have done. So here you go, you have Collision Mesh here.
We have a DefaultSceneRoot, which we can actually delete now. If we
can't delete it, I think it'll go away if we just close and reopen the Editor.
Unreal's a bit funny about that DefaultSceneRoot, it likes to hold onto it, until you next close it,
otherwise it'll go away when we add the next object. So let's just look
at the Projectile Bluepri?nt, full Editor, there you go! So we just
have a CollisionMesh, that's what we've said in C++. Alright, so let's carry on with this now
then! We're going to SetRootComponent. Now you weren't expected to do this in the challenge, but
I'm going to do that, I'm going to explicitly say I want the CollisionMesh to be the root component over in
Blueprint. I'm also, while I'm here, just going to do a couple of other
things. I'm going to say, to the CollisionMesh, SetNotifyRigidBody
Collision to (true). What does that do? Well before we compile
that line, if you look at the CollisionMesh, well firstly we can't see any
details of the CollisionMesh. So let me go back to the header file and
do what I suggested you did, which is make both of these things a UPROPERTY
(VisibleAnywhere, with a category
I would say "Components").
Always add a category, unless you have a reason not to. And
VisibleAnywhere is a bit strange actually, in this instance, because it is actually going to let us edit the
values on the Collision Mesh. And what I set
here, in the C++, with my SetNotifyRigidBody
Collision(true) means that if I make another Blueprint class based on
the Projectile class that this checkbox will be ticked by
default. Let me show you the checkbox. Click CollisionMesh, now you can see all its properties.
Down here, Simulation Generates Hit Events, that is this
SetNotifyRigidBodyCollision, and you can see now that it is defaulting
to true. If I turn it off we get a little revert arrow, because the default is true. I'm setting
sensible defaults, that's what I'm doing here. OK, so while I'm
there, we may as well also say that the default for this CollisionMesh
is for the visibility.
And how will I find that? Well you'd search for the word visibility, you'd find it there,
and I generally want it to be false in the future but for now, I'm
going to leave it as true. Yeah, I want it to be visible
true, because I want to see them for now, but in general, when you're creating
these things, we're not going to have big ugly bools, we're just going to be able to see projectiles because they leave
smoke. Does that make sense? Hopefully it does. Alright, so the other thing we need to create
is the LaunchBlast, alright. So we say Launch
Blast =, and then it's another CreateDefaultSubobject, and then, it's a
UProjectile...
Sorry ParticleSystem
Component. Don't worry about the particle emitter components, you'll understand what they are shortly. And we need to
give it an (FName), and again, why complicate things, just call it Launch
Blast. Great! Now is there anything we want to do
with that LaunchBlast? Well the only thing I want to do with it is to make sure that it
attaches itself to the CollisionMesh, because the Collision
Mesh, the thing that's going to detect what's it's hitting, the big cannon ball, wants to take with it
the particle system, that we're going to spend the next few lectures developing. And it wants it to be depositing
lumps of smoke behind it. So I'm just going to say LaunchBlast, and, as I say,
a couple of these things are not expected of you from the challenge. We're going to say
AttachTo(RootComponent),
and that will go ahead and attach it in the right place.
So I didn't expect you to set either of these two, the NotifyRigidBody or the Visibility,
and I didn't really expect you to do the AttachTo either. Of course, it's not
= AttachTo, we're doing arrow operator. LaunchBlast
Attach to (RootComponent). OK let's go ahead and compile, then we'll look at the blueprint,
and I'll recap the code and we are done for laying the foundations of setting
up the particle systems. So here it is, CollisionMesh with the LaunchBlast
on it. The CollisionMesh is Visible. Well it's
invisible by default, but we're leaving it Visible for a moment. Simulation Generates Hits Events has been
set as default. That's great! So if I play the game and fire now, I
actually get Invisible. I want Visible, so let's just make sure I can make it
Visible.  Compile! Maybe I need to save?
OK, now the reason
it's not visible, of course, is simply that I have not assigned a mesh to that now. Now be careful,
where are you going to get your sphere mesh from? We don't have a sphere anymore, right?
So we need to think about going and getting ourselves a sphere
from the starter content, reinforcing what we did in the last lecture. So we can add
new content or feature pack. We can go and add the StarterContent
and that's fine. Now watch the source control, as we do this! F5,
it's going to have suddenly a load of starter content come in. Great
that's fine! We want to go find the sphere in
there, it should
be in there somewhere. And Sphere is just a StaticMesh, I'm
going to move that to the Projectile. Now I can delete the Starter
Content again, and that's much neater, we're not holding on to a whole bunch
of stuff in the project that we don't need. I'm just grabbing the sphere that I need for the projectile,
putting it into the folder it should be in, and then, getting
rid of the rest of the starter content. So it says that, here
the Game Projectile is referencing a
basic wall material. I don't care, I don't need that material.
Lets just delete that, let all this starter content go,
pop back into the Projectile,
make sure that the CollisionMesh actually has a sphere mesh on it now.
It doesn't have any materials. Do we have a material? A
Rust material will do. I might as well reuse the material we have, so I'm setting the
StaticMesh in the material like that. Let's compile, make sure that we can see.
Yes we can, our rusty collision, our rusty
what do you call it, projectile there that's all good! Fantastic news, so I'm just going to close
the Editor now. I'm going to close VisualStudio.
I'm just going to make sure that on the disc we do not have
our... In Content we do not have a StarterContent folder.
Just reopen to make sure everything runs and we are in good shape! So this Starter
Content stuff could start to become a pain, if it does we'll look at further solutions, but we've
done number one, which is we've stabilized our system. We know what's changing
and what's not changing, everything is tracked properly under source control now. That is
good, that's worth fighting for. Then, what we will do if we really think this is a
hassle dealing with starter content as we'll find another solution, possibly using Get
LFS, which is the Large File Storage. So finally, let's see what's changed. We've
just got a few changes that have come in here, in this instance.
We have a few changes to some assets, we
have some changes to our code, etc. but no massive like
starter pack in here or anything in here, just a few expected changes.
OK fantastic! So I'll stage all those and see you in the next video!